README.md, before:

# CodeClash Backend

### Usage
Install npm v6.14.8 and node v12.19.0 (LTS versions). Using nvm is also very useful in order to switch between node versions.

Run npm install to get all the dependencies specified in package.json

Start server by typing: **npm start** while in the backend directory.
<br>
Start development server by typing: **yarn dev** while in the backend directory.
<br>
To run tests, after installing jest, type ***npm run test*** from root directory

### Endpoints
All below endpoints require: http://localhost:9000/ for testing
<br>
<br>

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/createUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Creates a user in the data base.  | body: {username,email,password} | 201, "Successfully created user."

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Database action failed." |
| 400, "Empty username" |
| 400, "Invalid username" |
| 400, "Invalid email address" |
| 400, "Empty password" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### GET `/:id`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Retrieves a user object and its related info from the database.  | request param: id of user | 200, user: JSON 

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 400, "\_id cannot be null" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/deleteUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Deletes a user in the data base.  | body: {user_id,password} | 201, "Successfully deleted user."

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Database action failed." |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 401, "Password provided is incorrect" |
| 400, "Empty user ID" |
| 400, "Empty password" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/login`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Login into the system  | **parameters**: username, password | 200, token: token string to be used for authenticated operations/endpoints 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "No account exists with those credentials" |
| 400, "The password you entered is incorrect" |

### PUT `/updateUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Updates a user's password and username in the system  | parameters: user_id, new_username, new_password | 200

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Empty user ID" |
| 400, "The username you submitted is empty. Please input something" |
| 400, "The password you submitted is empty. Please input something" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 400, "Password format is not valid" |
| 400, "Email or username is not unique" |

### GET `/challenges/:id`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Retrieves an array of challenge objects and their related info from the database. Note that ID is required to function properly.  | none | 200, challenge: JSON Array

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/createChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Create a new challenge  | **parameters**: name, id, description, language, funcSignature, localTests (string + array format), hiddenTests (string + array format), solution | 201, "Successfully created the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Missing challenge name parameter" |
| 400, "Challenge name is not unique" |
| 400, "Missing creator id parameter" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist." |
| 400, "Missing challenge description parameter" |
| 400, "Missing challenge language parameter" |
| 400, "Missing function signature parameter" |
| 400, "Missing implementation parameter" |
| 400, "Missing local test cases parameter" |
| 400, "Provided local tests are not valid" |
| 400, "Missing hidden test cases parameter" |
| 400, "Provided hidden tests are not valid" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/closeChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Closing a challenge  | **parameters**: challengeName, creatorId, challengeId | 201, "Successfully closed the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Missing challenge name parameter" |
| 400, "Missing creator id parameter" |
| 400, "Missing challenge id parameter" |
| 400, "Challenge already closed!" |
| 400, "User with this id does not exist." |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/deleteChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Delete a challenge  | **parameters**: challengeId, challengeName, author | 200, "Successfully deleted the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "Challenge doesn't exist." |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist." |
| 404, "Incorrect author." |
| 400, "Challenge does not exist." |
| 400, "Challenge name is empty." |
| 400, "Missing author parameter." |

------------------------------------------------------------

### POST `/submitChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Delete a challenge  | **body**: challengeId, submissionCode, writerId | 200, "Successfully submitted challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
INCOMPLETE

------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Adding challenge attributes endpoint description

README.md, after:

# CodeClash Backend

### Usage
Install npm v6.14.8 and node v12.19.0 (LTS versions). Using nvm is also very useful in order to switch between node versions.

Run npm install to get all the dependencies specified in package.json

Start server by typing: **npm start** while in the backend directory.
<br>
Start development server by typing: **yarn dev** while in the backend directory.
<br>
To run tests, after installing jest, type ***npm run test*** from root directory

### Endpoints
All below endpoints require: http://localhost:9000/ for testing
<br>
<br>

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/createUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Creates a user in the data base.  | body: {username,email,password} | 201, "Successfully created user."

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Database action failed." |
| 400, "Empty username" |
| 400, "Invalid username" |
| 400, "Invalid email address" |
| 400, "Empty password" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### GET `/:id`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Retrieves a user object and its related info from the database.  | request param: id of user | 200, user: JSON 

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 400, "\_id cannot be null" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/deleteUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Deletes a user in the data base.  | body: {user_id,password} | 201, "Successfully deleted user."

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Database action failed." |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 401, "Password provided is incorrect" |
| 400, "Empty user ID" |
| 400, "Empty password" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/login`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Login into the system  | **parameters**: username, password | 200, token: token string to be used for authenticated operations/endpoints 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "No account exists with those credentials" |
| 400, "The password you entered is incorrect" |

### PUT `/updateUser`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Updates a user's password and username in the system  | parameters: user_id, new_username, new_password | 200

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Empty user ID" |
| 400, "The username you submitted is empty. Please input something" |
| 400, "The password you submitted is empty. Please input something" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |
| 400, "Password format is not valid" |
| 400, "Email or username is not unique" |

### GET `/challenges/:id`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Retrieves an array of challenge objects and their related info from the database. Note that ID is required to function properly.  | none | 200, challenge: JSON Array

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/createChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Create a new challenge  | **parameters**: name, id, description, language, funcSignature, localTests (string + array format), hiddenTests (string + array format), solution | 201, "Successfully created the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Missing challenge name parameter" |
| 400, "Challenge name is not unique" |
| 400, "Missing creator id parameter" |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist." |
| 400, "Missing challenge description parameter" |
| 400, "Missing challenge language parameter" |
| 400, "Missing function signature parameter" |
| 400, "Missing implementation parameter" |
| 400, "Missing local test cases parameter" |
| 400, "Provided local tests are not valid" |
| 400, "Missing hidden test cases parameter" |
| 400, "Provided hidden tests are not valid" |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/challenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Get attributes of challenge  | **parameters**: challengeName | 200, \[challengeName, creatorUsername, description, language, function signature, local tests in JSON, challenge ID \];

Note that this is a POST and not a GET because `router.get()` kept on inexplicably giving errors 

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Missing challenge name parameter" |
| 400, "Challenge does not exist" |
| 400, "Challenge can no longer be solved" |
|"404", "User with this id does not exist."|

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/closeChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Closing a challenge  | **parameters**: challengeName, creatorId, challengeId | 201, "Successfully closed the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 400, "Missing challenge name parameter" |
| 400, "Missing creator id parameter" |
| 400, "Missing challenge id parameter" |
| 400, "Challenge already closed!" |
| 400, "User with this id does not exist." |

------------------------------------------------------------
### POST `/deleteChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Delete a challenge  | **parameters**: challengeId, challengeName, author | 200, "Successfully deleted the challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
| 404, "Challenge doesn't exist." |
| 404, "User with this id does not exist." |
| 404, "Incorrect author." |
| 400, "Challenge does not exist." |
| 400, "Challenge name is empty." |
| 400, "Missing author parameter." |

------------------------------------------------------------

### POST `/submitChallenge`
| Usage  | Parameters | Returns |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Delete a challenge  | **body**: challengeId, submissionCode, writerId | 200, "Successfully submitted challenge" 


Following what was written in the Gherkin Feature file:

| Errors  |
| ------------- |
| 500, "Internal Server Error" |
INCOMPLETE

------------------------------------------------------------
